README.md, before:

watcher-rss
===========

Watch a site and generate an RSS entry on change

When you're trying to follow a site's updates, you generally hope that it would have an RSS feed. Sometimes it doesn't.

Or maybe you're trying to follow a site that does not provide an RSS for the specific page/subsection you want to follow.

Or maybe you want to be alerted to changes in a page when the page itself changes - but in your RSS reader?

watcher-rss is a simple bash script designed for that.

Deploy it to your server and call it through your crontab. When its cron job comes up, it loads the releavnt URL profile and checks the target page for changes. If there are, it updates the feed XML appropriately.

Requirements
===

* Web server - to publish the RSS file
* cron (or equivalent mechanism) to call the script
* Server with bash and general POSIX utils. Originally written on Linux. May work on OS X. May work on Windows with cygwin. Not tested.

Setup
---

1. Download/clone the watcher script genrss.sh and make it executable.
2. Edit genrss.sh and change the path DEFRSSDIR - point this to where you want the feeds to be published
    * for example, DEFRSSDIR=/var/www/html/rss
    * The RSS could then be at http://example.com/rss/example.xml
2. Run it once to create the necessary directories
3. Create handler profile (see below) and save it to ~/.genrss/exampleName
4. edit your crontab with `crontab -e`
5. Adjust the cron frequency and make the job call the genrss.sh script with examplename `/home/user/bin/genrss.sh exampleName`
6. Save the new crontab

Profile file
===

run `./defrss feedName` to create a new feed file in ~/.genrss/ and pre-populate it with a basic handler.

Here's an example for Sinfest, a webcomic I follow but that has no RSS.

I have this file saved as `~/.genrss/sinfest`

My crontab is set to `0 6 * * * /home/me/bin/genrss.sh sinfest` to check every morning at 06:00 for a new comic.

The profile file content is

	PAGEURL=http://sinfest.net
	PAGENAME=Sinfest!
	
	# this function receives as argument the page specified
	function findstamp() {
	   cat $1 | grep -E "<img src=\"btphp/comics/.+?.gif\" alt=\".+?\">" | sed -r -e "s/^.+alt=\"(.+?)\">.+\$/\1/"
	}

The PAGEURL and PAGENAME are set here. PAGENAME will also be the name of the feed path (for example, http://ducakedhare.co.uk/rss/Sinfest_.xml)

TODO
===

Move page download logic to profile script?

Demonstrate use of custom tools/external scripts in profile script

Commit message:

Updated README with examples
Following the new changes, updated README

README.md, after:

watcher-rss
===========

Watch a site and generate an RSS entry on change

When you're trying to follow a site's updates, you generally hope that it would have an RSS feed. Sometimes it doesn't.

Or maybe you're trying to follow a site that does not provide an RSS for the specific page/subsection you want to follow.

Or maybe you want to be alerted to changes in SOMETHING, SOMEWHERE - directly in your RSS reader?

watcher-rss is a simple bash script designed for that.

Deploy it to your server and call it through your crontab. When its cron job comes up, it loads the releavnt URL profile and checks the target page for changes. If there are, it updates the feed XML appropriately.

Requirements
===

* Somewhere to publish the RSS as an XML file where the RSS consumer can get it
* cron (or equivalent mechanism) to call the script
* bash, wget; GNU cat, sed, grep

Setup
---

1. Download/clone the watcher script genrss.sh and make it executable.
2. Edit genrss.sh and change the path DEFRSSDIR - point this to where you want the feeds to be published
    * for example, DEFRSSDIR=/var/www/html/rss
    * The RSS could then be at http://example.com/rss/example.xml
2. Create handler script (see below) and save it
3. edit your crontab with `crontab -e`
4. Adjust the cron frequency and make the job call the genrss.sh script with examplename `/home/user/bin/genrss.sh exampleName`
5. Save the new crontab

Handler script
===

run `./defrss feedName` to create a new feed file and pre-populate it with some demo handler logic and the required variables.

Here's an example for the FOSDEM event, to monitor its changes - I specifically track its title for changes in the number of events. You could conceivably make your script generate a unique identifier for any change you wanted the script to monitor...

I have my handler file saved as `~/rss/fosdem`

My crontab is set to `0 * * * * /home/me/bin/genrss.sh /home/me/rss/fosdem` to check every hour for updates.

The profile file content is

	#! /bin/bash
	
	# The following definitions are mandatory
	RSS_PAGEURL=https://fosdem.org/2015/schedule/events/
	RSS_PAGENAME="FOSDEM Events"
	RSS_PAGEID=fosdem
	
	# Process the page
	# Note - the main script includes the  function to help you download pages easily
	function findstamp() {
	        NEWSTAMP=$(getpage "$RSS_PAGEURL" "-" | grep "identifying string" | sed -r -e "s/.+(isolate this).+/\1/")
	#RSS_PERMALINK=define permalink (optional)
	RSS_DESCRIPTION="Now listing $NEWSTAMP"
	}

The RSS\_PAGEURL and RSS\_PAGENAME are set here. RSS\_PAGENAME will also be the name of the feed path (for example, http://ducakedhare.co.uk/rss/FOSDEM_Events.xml)

TODO
===

Demonstrate use of custom tools/external scripts in handler script
